Do you also think that ticket prices are too high ?
Since COVID, this is not an impression, it is a reality. 
The vast majority of  airlines have increased their ticket prices. 
Some more than others. Some way more than others...
Generally speaking, low -cost airlines are those that have 
benefited the most from this price increase.Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
OUR  DATA PROVIDERS :   &
Worldwide Benchmark
Feb 2022 – Jan 2023 vs Feb 2019 – Jan 2020
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
Low-Cost Airlines in Europe
This doesn't imply that Eurowings  provides the most 
affordable fares. Instead, it's the airline that has witnessed the 
smallest increase in ticket revenue per passenger. 
When we scrutinize their pricing tactics, considering the 
average sector length for each, Ryanair, Wizz Air, easyJet and 
Transavia (NH) still maintain their status as the most cost -
effective choices in terms of pricing.
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
European Network Carriers
It is no surprise to see Air Serbia at the top since it has become 
the only European airline to fly directly to Russia… but supply 
and demand are obviously no longer balanced.
When we examine their pricing strategies while taking into 
account  the average sector length for each, Lufthansa, Swiss, 
and KLM emerge as the airlines with the highest fares.
There are four airlines not included in this list, as they have, in 
fact, experienced a decrease in their per -passenger ticket 
revenue since COVID: ITA, SAS, Azores, and Luxair ...
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
Canada, USA & Mexico
The North American market was among the first to experience a 
rebound. Nonetheless, a gap between demand and supply has 
endured, keeping prices at elevated levels. 
Among the airlines still in operation today, there is only one 
exception: Sunwing , which was sold to WestJet since…
Today, as we analyze their pricing strategies while considering the 
typical sector lengths for each airline, Sunwning  had become the 
most affordable option in Canada. In the United States, Frontier 
leads the competition when it comes to call prices. In Mexico, where 
fares are notably lower than in the United States, Volaris  provides 
the most budget -friendly ticket options. It's important to note that 
this benchmark does not factor in ancillary revenue.
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
Low-Cost Airlines in Asia
Just like in other regions, low -cost airlines in Asia have 
predominantly seized the opportunity in the post -COVID era to 
increase their fares. India, however, stands out as one of the major 
markets where this price hike has been comparatively restrained.
The low -cost airline with the highest ticket prices increase since 
COVID is West Air in China.  The rationale behind this is 
straightforward: their ticket fares were previously extremely low, and 
the COVID pandemic presented an opportunity to reset their pricing 
strategy. The same is true for Lucky Air.
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
Low-Cost Airlines based in the Middle East
Only two low -cost airlines in the world have reduced the 
price of their tickets since the pandemic, and they are 
currently in fierce competition : flyadeal  and flynas .
Ticket Prices Increase since COVID
TOP 50 Largest Airlines
Feb 2022 – Jan 2023 vs Feb 2019 – Jan 2020
OUR  DATA PROVIDERS :    &

Understand why and how each aircraft contributes
to the operational and commercial success of an airline
30+ commercial and operational metrics 
to explain ahead of time the airline’s financial performance 
and the role of each asset.
For more information: info@avbench.com
